 ESOF 2016/2017 - Assignment 1: Sofware Processes

 DuckDuckGo was founded by Gabriel Weinberg in February 29th 2008 with the idea of a better search engine, with less spam.The name of this company comes from the children's game, duck, duck, goose. In 2009 DuckDuckGo decided not to collect user information and go Anonymous, unlike other major search engines. By September 17th 2014, apple begins to include DuckDuckGo to Safary with the lauch of iOS 8, as so did Mozilla. Nowadays DuckDuckGo has more than 10 million searches a day, and its major caracteristic is its anonymity, which is what made it what it is today.

After making contact with Caine Tighe, 1st emplooye of DuckDuckGo, he said that their work follows the Software prototyping model. In this the purpose of a prototype is to allow users of the software to evaluate developers' proposals for the design of the eventual product by actually trying them out, rather than having to interpret and evaluate the design based on descriptions.
The process of prototyping involves first identifing the basic requirements then develpment of prototype, review the prototype and finally revise and enhance the prototype taking the feedback into account provided in the review by end users.
Major types of software prototyping are Throwaway prototyping(In this approach the prototype is constructed with the idea that it will be discarded and the final system will be built from scratch.) and Evolutionary Prototyping(In Evolutionary Prototyping, developers can focus themselves to develop parts of the system that they understand instead of working on developing a whole system.)
The benefits of software prototyping is to reduce time and cost and improve the user involvement . Developers in this project add features by making a separeted branch. Those are tested independently of other features that might be in development at the same time, and must contain Unit tests that must be passing, for the pull request to be accepted. So this project follows Test-driven development on the point that you must add (passing) tests in their code, and then their prototype could be added. Despite that, it doesn't follow continuous integration, on the point that a developer might code a full feature before knowing if it will be added to the project.

We think this development process fits the software itself, because being an open source and community driven development, it makes sense that everyone that implements a new feature or fixes a bug needs to create new tests to validate it and make sure that next commits don’t break what was already fixed and working. Creating a somewhat strict contribution process ensures that the application keeps stable and bug-free, as contributions come from many people, some might not even know the whole development from the beginning and could easily break something in the core.

While the test-driven development used in combination with software prototyping is a good choice in this kind of projects, it was originally thought to costs by showing the clients early implementations of the features before investing a lot in them. In this case, features might not be discussed up front, and when they are it’s on a text-based comment system, that does not always show what’s the true idea, the real implementation of the feature. Also, costs aren’t an issue for a non-profit company with a community driven workflow, at least in this case. Despite that, it’s a good choice, and it’s becoming more popular each day among open source software develop by their community, even when not specially designed with the used case in mind, it can be a good fit, keeping the main application somewhat bug-free and buildable for others that might be working on something else. 


It could be used as an alternative the method of “Incremental development and delivery”, that is development in steps, since idea, implementation, test and maintenance, generating less documentation for changes, and which has frequency of client feedback for solve the important failures on system for do not have assumptions that cause errors, with this the systems services with higher priority received more test, improving the performance of the same, differently the method of “Software prototyping”, from customer feedback new changes are made and continue the process until the customer is satisfied with the product, losing time for make the product that usually will be “discarded”.

The disadvantage can arise relatives problems on the system architecture, because  tends to degrade with news increments, spending more money to modify a software system to improve the internal structure the same, becoming more expensive and complex.
